In this video you'll create some appropriate categories for the photography site so that visitors can
You'll also use your categories to provide an intuitive navigation scheme for the content side bar and
take a look at a category page which is one of the archive pages provided in wordpress categories or
We'll be learning how to use other taxonomies like tags and even custom taxonomies in this course.
The idea here is that we have a great section of the Web site called the content side bar right here
site and trying to look for different types of photos from this photographer at this point I'd like
the sidebar with those category names and then we'll go through and we'll assign several posts or at
Well here's how I would go through the process first under posts.
We used it at one point in an earlier video but you could see that we have a whole bunch of imported
But I'm going to go ahead and choose a few different category names that a photographer might use and
enter him in here.
As before I've sped up the video to get through the process of creating each of these new categories
a little bit faster.
OK.
It's showing me my latest categories at the top so I can see that I've actually chosen figure actions
posts can be categorized in one category or more than one category.
And when somebody clicks that category name they'll be taken to what's called an archive page which
Now I'll just go over to appearance customize open the widget editor and I'll create a list of categories
inside of that content sidebar.
Now as you went through this process you may have noticed a couple of potential problems.
One is that if a category doesn't have any posts in it it doesn't actually show that category in the
All of these categories that came with our import are not ones that we really need.
So the first thing I would do is go through that categories list and delete all the categories that
And then I would add a post to each of those categories so that I could see what it will actually look
I'll start by closing the customize or and then going back under posts to the category page and what
I want to delete and there's actually 72 categories for pages of them.
And in fact I can go ahead and list all of those categories on the same page for bulk deleting if I
that's more than 72 and hit apply every screen within the Wordpress dashboard has a screen options dropdown
that you can use to control what you want to see or how many items you want to see on the screen.
What I'm going to do is click the checkbox next to names so that all of them are checked.
And then I'm going to go through and look for the categories that I want to keep Now one thing I want
called photographs and I do want to keep that one because I think every post that has a photograph in
So there's photographs I want to keep that on
still life
great.
So a click book actions to lead.
Now this just deletes the categories.
It doesn't delete the posts within the category.
If a post is left without a category it will be set to the category Uncategorized which is actually
Within WordPress There we go one two three four five six categories.
Oops it looks like I deleted one of the categories that I had created before.
It must have been right near the top because it starts with a.
I missed it before but it's called Action.
A lot of times when you type into a field and you need to remember something that you typed before the
So I'll add that category back in now that I have these categories.
There's zero posts in most of the categories.
There are three posts in the photographs category because I had created those posts and placed them
But what I do now is go through two posts and I'll start to assign some posts to certain categories.
I can use the quick edit method for getting these into some of my categories.
And really it doesn't matter which ones I choose.
of course when I set this content up with my client I will have them be putting in photographs and making
Now because I know that each of my photograph posts will have a featured image I'm going to go ahead
place a featured image within each of those after I've chosen categories for all of them.
Oops don't forget I want to put this not only into the photographs but also the particular type of category
photographs.
Hello world.
This one needs to get him out of it Uncategorized and be put into photographs.
I'm just going through and setting up this category schemes that I can see what my design will look
Once I have categorized posts with featured images just one more task I'm going to place a featured
top and the three posts coming down right here on the front page having featured images and I'll also
So applause the video while I take care of that as I finish up the last post here.
I just want to show you that I've placed a featured image within each of the three posts and for this
on the home page or the archive page there.
I also want to let you know that I went in and I'm going to go ahead and change this featured image
to the one that I edited.
And we as we had in previous videos.
Great now that that post is saved we might be able to just go back to the home page and refresh the
Nice.
We've got three feature posts here.
I go back up and click one of the sidebar photo categories buttons you can see that shows a title category
And that's the photo I had under the action category.
I can also see that the R L has the R L we're using slash category slash action and that u r l the name
category or something different depending on the client.
If you go back to the Wordpress dashboard and under settings permalink you were controlling that you
a little bit lower down are the optional changes the category based and the tag base.
There's an explanation here but if for instance you use topic instead of category it will place topics
in that you are all here at the top.
One last thing about the category taxonomy.
Some themes will display not only a title on a category page or an archive page but also a description.
And 2014 is one of those.
If you go back to the Wordpress dashboard under posts categories and then you open up one of your category
pages by say action edit.
You'll be able to put in a description.
Now this description isn't used on every theme but some themes do use it for a photographer site.
It's a nice addition.
You'll learn about categories and created some category navigation by placing a widget on the content
You learn that categories are one of Wordpress is taxonomies or types of content and that archive pages
are those that display a list of certain types of content.
In this case the category archive displays a list of posts within a certain category.
editing section of the Wordpress dashboard in the next video.
We'll go over another included taxonomy called tags and compare it to categories and you'll create another
Let's get to it.